easy monetary policies are the number
one priority for central banks this is
also the case for corporations as well
you can't escape them as discussed
previously companies Force products and
services onto people who do not ask for
them and do not have a need for them at
all they simply try to postpone the
inevitable a grand crisis which is
expected by everyone but accepted by
only a handful of us you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
today I want to get into this one major
issue and then I want to fire through a
whole bunch of quick ones let's get into
this out of fox millions of Americans
who want to borrow up to $25 million
have a new potential lender none other
than everyone's favorite Goldman Sachs
so they have a partnership with Fidelity
another major corporation saying they
will enable this Wall Street firm to
offer check this out Securities based
loans something that's not new
necessarily to roughly 6 million
accounts managed by broker dealers
family offices and wealth advisers that
use Fidelity's technology Goldman
currently offers such loans to fewer
than
12,000 ultra wealthy clients of its
private bank so they are expanding that
dramatically so all of a sudden you have
Securities based
loans something that isn't that common
so let's touch on that for a moment when
you have a house the bank will give you
that house based on you putting a small
fraction down let's just say
20% so you're going to put 20% you own
or you get to live in 100% of that home
you get to use 100% of it and you've
only put up 20% why because if you fall
through your payments the bank can
always take the home so they have that
as
collateral so they're willing to give
that to
you and it doesn't really work so much
like that when you're doing so with
stocks they won't give you much of a
loan in comparison to what they will do
with homes I mean look you can get it
with 1.5% down there's all sorts of
silly things no interest or only
interest loans and everything there's
there's ways many more ways to get a lot
of debt in real estate versus let's say
stocks but the ability to use your
stocks as collateral is something that
isn't really expanded so much until more
recently and look at what we have seen
where you move from 12,000 of these
ultra wealthy clients now going to be
allowed in this particular company
anyway to 6 million ion accounts so will
all 6 million use that no I don't think
they will but what we can see is that we
are
expanding the amount of debt just in one
company dramatically a lot of people are
going to use this look they can say your
Apple stock is at $1 today tomorrow it's
probably going to be $2 and later down
the road it's going to be $3 So based on
that we're willing to give you some
money and what are they using that for
well let's get more into that in a
moment here the move enables Goldman to
gain access to millions of potential
borrowers at a time at the bank has been
trying to lend more now think about that
for a second we've had ultra low
interest rate policies for all of this
time and
yet they want to loan even more more to
people but you're telling me that people
are stretched out to the max you've been
shown that people are saving essentially
nothing they have no savings they have
no ability to plan for the future they
have no
money and yet you want them to borrow
more this proves my point over and over
and over again it is the latest attempt
by a firm known for for its Investment
Banking and trading to reach Main Street
customers without a network of brick and
mortar branches so yet more debt to be
consumed by the average individual Wall
Street brokers are pushing customers to
take out billions of dollars in loans
backed by stocks and
bonds a trend that yields lucrative fees
for the firms but poses risks for
borrowers wow can you believe it they've
actually spoke a little bit of Truth
Executives at Morgan Stanley earlier
this month highlighted these loans to
individuals as a big growth area and
revenue driver saying the loans helped
expand the bank's overall wealth lending
by about
$3.5 billion on Thursday Goldman Sachs
took a step forward growing its
securities-based lending business
through a new partnership with Fidelity
so what we're talking about yet again
Securities based loans they become a
reliable check that out reliable sure in
a bullmark Market source of
Revenue in the years since the financial
crisis as firms have been begun moving
away from a business model of charging
commissions and that's happening in
Canada too and they're going to a
different policy now all right so think
about that for a second if they're going
to lose Commission on their fees they
have to keep up their profits corporate
profits are
essential so what do they do they find
the way to loan out more money and make
money on their debt that they've created
created what a genius plan now what are
these people buying are they buying more
stocks well they're buying toys that's
the fact you know they're upgrading
their
homes they are purchasing Vehicles
they're doing whatever they want and
they're using their stocks as collateral
and that to me is a very very dangerous
policy if you as an individual you have
your $1 and you want to invest that in
Apple you risk that $1 you put it down
you take that
risk and you're able
to make money off of that $1 or you lose
that but when you go into using it as
collateral for something else or when
you bet on margin you increase the risk
dramatically because not only could you
lose that dollar but you could lose more
than that and what if you don't have
another dollar in your bank to make up
for that
well then you're in big trouble and
that's what happened during the
financial crisis that's what happened
during the doom boom that's what
happened every single other crash
previous and it has expanded
dramatically since let's say the 80s or
so once we got into all these Financial
derivatives that have been created
everything really you know accelerated
at that
point but it's been going on for a lot
longer than that so this is really what
I wanted to get into today and
understand that what we're seeing in the
financial world isn't what you as an
individual are most likely involved in
you may not use margin you may just be
putting your own money down but you have
to understand that the general public
the investment firms like all the big
money
essentially is not doing what you do and
you think well that's fine I'm fine with
that whatever they want to do they do it
but it doesn't work like that because
it's a domino effect what they do will
hurt you really bad and they'll find out
Goldman Sachs the big boys will find out
if something's going to happen long
before you do as an individual Jim
Kramer is not going to help you out he's
going to sell off what he needs to sell
off before he tells you I assure
you never trust anybody